---
  AIP: *103*
  Title: *BridgeChain Transaction Types*
  Authors: *ARK.io Team <aips@ark.io>*
  Status: *Draft*
  Discussions-To: https://github.com/arkecosystem/AIPS/issues/103
  Type: *Standards*
  Category: Core | Network | Protocol
  Created: 2019-06-27
  Last Update: 2019-06-27
  Requires: AIP-29
--- 

# BridgeChain Transaction Types

A team or a company will be able to issue a business/bridgechain registration transaction in the same way a delegate registration transaction is issued. The proposed fee for this transaction should be in the level of delegate registration ARK as it relates to a similar process, however as this introduces more data being stored on mainnet, we should take spam protection into consideration (fees, rules). We will also add ability to terminate business or bridgechain via a special transaction type (reason: for new projects or companies to use the non-claimed chain ticker, business name). 


## Prerequisites:

**AIP-29.**
## Overall Tasks:

*  Implement new transaction type via AIP-29: **BusinessRegistration**
*  Implement new transaction type via AIP-29: **BusinessResignation**
*  Implement new transaction type via AIP-29: **BridgeChainRegistration**
*  Implement new transaction type via AIP-29: **BridgeChainResignation**
*  Implement new transaction type via AIP-29: **BusinessVote** 
*  A new tab in the explorer to show registered businesses
*  A new tab in the explorer to show registered bridgechains
*  QR code display in the explorer and desktop wallet - to allow for mobile-wallet autoconfigure from bridgechain registration type

## General Features:

*  Any person/project/team can issue the new Transaction Type
*  Transaction types must allow the possibility to update its asset fields. This should be done in the form of sending a new registration transaction with updated data. We will limit this to once per (24h~10800 blocks in number of blocks).

### Hardware limitations
Size limitations related to size of specifics fields, that can go into the additional assets. We must be careful and limit every incoming field to avoid simple and cheap attack issues on the mainnet - which would result in size/spam increase.

### Processing Limits
1. Limit data update execution ability to a few times/once per day - doing so we avoid scammer.
2. Strict schema validation
3. Ensure checks on transaction pool and protocol level (see specs for each transaction type)

Check below for specification of new transaction types. We are introducing the following transaction types: 

1. BusinessRegistration
2. BusinessResignation
3. BridgeChainRegistration
4. BridgeChainResignation
5. BusinessVote

# **1.BusinessRegistration Transaction**

A **BusinessRegistration** Transaction will be introduced.

Name: **BusinessRegistration**

## **Limitations/Rules:**
*   Same address/business owner can send BusinessRegistration transaction only 1 per day (height - 10800).
* Fee should be high, in terms of 2x delegate registration    
*   Sending the same transaction again, makes the previous one obsolete. Meaning if we query for business details, we just use the latest one.
*   Last transaction from same sender is considered as latest valid data. 
*   Check UNIQUE specification constraints in the field names below. Meaning only 1 Business Name can be registered at a time.
*   Transaction Size Multiplier should be tested, so the fee grows a lot with more data being put in. Test it and adjust it accordingly. Use this for testing: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19Ls8YzOXAAVA4f7heneDFFwK2xrI2_VEXqmumWSNgJo/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19Ls8YzOXAAVA4f7heneDFFwK2xrI2_VEXqmumWSNgJo/edit#gid=0) 
*   Fields - we allow UTF, for all that strange chars and names. Think UTF8 is enough. Maybe the same logic as VendorField (but would like avoid all that fields in transaction object - related to length).
*   Fields - not yet decided how far we go with the structure validation of some fields (email, vat, number, website), so we have valid structure. Some basic reg-ex schema validation rules could be introduced.


## **Fields:**

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Field</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Size (bytes)</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Required</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Name
   </td>
   <td>30
   </td>
   <td>Y  \
(Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VAT
   </td>
   <td>10
   </td>
   <td>N \
(Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Website Address
   </td>
   <td>40
   </td>
   <td>Y \
(Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Github Repository \
<em>General Github Organisation Repo</em>
   </td>
   <td>50
   </td>
   <td>N \
(Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <td>TrustLink \
<em>Link to government business register site proving valid business corporation details.</em>
   </td>
   <td>40
   </td>
   <td>N \
(Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## **Implementation notes:**

_Final decision and specifics will be adjusted by project lead and aligned during actual implementation._

*   Follow GTI guidelines for writing custom transactions
*   Add BusinessInformation to wallets (core-state), so we can identify them and access the latest data
*   Add flag `isBusiness`
*   Add flag `hasBridgeChain` or `nrOfBridgeChains=3` showing that Business has 3 registered bridgechains
*   Update TransactionPool validation rules:
    *   Size limitations of specific fields
    *   Schema validation of some fields (www, email…)
    *   Limit to accepting only 1 transaction of same type per day and sender on the pool level (if there was the same transaction from same sender at heightX, then if CurrentHeight - HeightX < 10800 - reject).
*   Update consensus protocol level (same as pool):
    *   Limit to accepting only 1 transaction of same type and sender per day on the protocol level (if there was the same transaction from same sender at heightX, then if CurrentHeight - HeightX < 10800 - reject).
    *   Size limitations
*   Add transaction bootstrap for getting this data and updating wallets
*   Explorer extension (tab) display registered businesses
*   Desktop wallet new tab to display registered business


# **2.BridgeChainRegistration Transaction**

A **BridgeChainRegistration** Transaction will be introduced.

Name: **BridgeChainRegistration**

## **Limitations/Rules:** 

*   Only a registered business can issue this transaction type. If address has not issued a BusinessTransaction yet, it should be rejected.
*   Sending the same transaction again, makes the previous one “obsolete” - Meaning if we query for business details, we just use the latest one as valid data - this gives us update options of business/bridgechain data.
*   Last transaction from the same sender is ruled as latest data for this chain (giving us options to update bridgechain information).
*   Same address/business owner can send BridgeChainRegistration transaction only 1 per day, to avoid spam. Limit to previous transaction in block height (each 10800).
*   Check UNIQUE specifications in the field names below. Meaning only 1 Business Name can be registered at a time.
*   Transaction Size Multiplier should be tested, so the fee grows a lot with more data being put in (to protect us from spam). Test it and adjust it accordingly. Use this for testing: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19Ls8YzOXAAVA4f7heneDFFwK2xrI2_VEXqmumWSNgJo/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19Ls8YzOXAAVA4f7heneDFFwK2xrI2_VEXqmumWSNgJo/edit#gid=0) 
*   We allow UTF, for all that strange chars and names. Think UTF8 is enough. Maybe the same logic as VendorField (but would like avoid all that fields in transaction object - related to length).


## **Fields:**

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Field</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Size (bytes)</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Required</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Name
   </td>
   <td>30
   </td>
   <td>Y (Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>SeedNodes \
<em>JsonArray</em>
   </td>
   <td>300
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>GenesisHash \
<em>Hash of the initial genesis block. We can then query the seed nodes and check if we have the same genesis hash on the pool entry validation.</em>
   </td>
   <td>33
   </td>
   <td>Y
<p>
(Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Github Repository of Core
   </td>
   <td>50
   </td>
   <td>Y (Unique)
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## **Implementation notes:**

_Final decision and specifics will be adjusted by project lead and aligned during actual implementation._

*   Follow GTI guidelines for writing custom transactions
*   Update TransactionPool validation rules:
    *   Size limitations of specific fields
    *   Schema validation of some fields (www, email…)
    *   Limit to accepting only 1 transaction of same type per day on the pool level
    *   Check the listed peers for the responsiveness before entering pool (we could do basic check, calling crypto configuration endpoint; we could also check them with peer/verifier - to avoid faking the seeds and spamming the network)
    *   Limit to accepting this type of transaction, only if wallet is a registered business - `isBusiness` flag on the protocol level
*   Consensus protocol level:
    *   Limit to accepting only 1 transaction of same type per day on the protocol level _(if there was the same transaction from same sender at heightX, then if CurrentHeight - HeightX < 10800 - reject)_
    *   Limit to accepting this type of transaction, only if wallet is a registered business - `isBusiness` flag on the protocol level
    *   Size limitations (same as on pool level)
*   Add bridgechain details to **BusinessRegistered** wallets (core-state), so we can list them and access the latest data specified data
*   SPV add step for getting this data
*   Explorer display registered bridgechain in a separate tab (or similar)
*   Explorer display QR code with seed and ticker details
*   Desktop wallet new tab to display registered bridgechains, and allowing them to autoconfigure add to wallet just by clicking
*   Wallets (Mobile) use QR code to auto-configure and add new chain



# **3.BusinessResignation Transaction**

A Business can terminate its registration, if it’s no longer operational or working. The reasoning behind this is to make the name resolution of business available again. 

Name: **BusinessResignation**

## **Limitations/Rules:** 
*   Only a registered business can issue this transaction type.
*   After the business is terminated, a new address can use the BusinessName and owned BridgeChain Names.
*   If a Business is terminated, also all bridgechains are terminated and considered no longer valid
*   SPV validation

# **4.BridgeChainResignation Transaction**

A Business can terminate one of its bridgechain registrations. 

Name: **BridgeChainResignation**

## **Limitations/Rules:**

*   Only a registered business can issue this transaction type.
*   After the business is terminated, a new address can use the BridgeChain (name).
